Ray budget control options description (#173)
golemfactory/golem-docs: src/pages/docs/creators/ray/ray-on-golem-cli.md

---
title: Ray on Golem CLI 
pageTitle: Ray on Golem CLI In-Depth Guide
description: Explore the nuances of running Ray on Golem command-line tools 
type: article 
---

# Ray on Golem CLI 

Ray on Golem exposes a command line interface to help you manage the cluster.

This article explains the commands available, which are useful when working with Ray on Golem.

## Commands Overview

Ray on Golem supports the following commands
- `ray-on-golem network-stats golem-cluster.yaml` scans the network and offers information about available providers ([details](#network-stats))
- `ray-on-golem webserver` starts Golem requestor service controlling the providers used by the cluster

## Network stats

The tool scans the network and gives you an overview of the availability of the providers.
It allows you to test the settings of your [cluster yaml](/docs/creators/ray/cluster-yaml) file. 

> You can use it to test different [budget control](/docs/creators/ray/cluster-yaml#avoiding-too-expensive-providers) settings, both on [the testnet and the mainnet](/docs/creators/ray/cluster-yaml#network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use it to verify and fine-tune different [budget control](/docs/creators/ray/cluster-yaml#avoiding-too-expensive-providers) parameters, both on [the testnet and the mainnet](/docs/creators/ray/cluster-yaml#network).
```

### Example usage

```bash
ray-on-golem network-stats golem-cluster.yaml --duration 5
```
```
Gathering stats data for 5 minutes...
Gathering stats data done

Proposals count:
Initial: 48
Not blacklisted: 48
Passed Reject if max_expected_usage_cost exceeds 1.5: 48
Passed Reject if price_initial exceeds 0.5: 48
Passed Reject if price_cpu_sec exceeds 0.0005: 48
Passed Reject if price_duration_sec exceeds 0.0005: 48
Negotiation initialized: 48 
Negotiated successfully: 37

Negotiation errors:
Outbound rejected because: Everyone rule didn't match whitelist ; Audited-Payload rule requires manifest signature ; Partner rule requires node descriptor ; : 4
No capacity available. Reached Agreements limit: 1: 2
Failed to send proposal response! Request timed out: 1
Failed to send proposal response! 500: {"message":"Failed to send response for Proposal [***]. Error: Countering Proposal [***] GSB error: GSB failure: Net: error forwarding message: Connection timed out.."}: 1
```

### Duration

> Golem Network is peer-to-peer, which means that providers' proposals are not always available at first. They get broadcasted from time to time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Golem Network is peer-to-peer, which means there is no central registry of providers offers. Therefore, 
providers proposals are not immediately available to a newly-connected requestor. They get re-broadcasted at a certain interval and accumulate over time.
```

> Negotiating with a provider also takes some time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, negotiating with individual providers also takes some time.
```

> Use the `--duration` parameter to set how long you want to be scanning the network. It gives time for gathering proposals and negotiating them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `--duration` parameter to set how long you want your network scan to last. It allows time to gather and negotiate the incoming proposals
```
